.\" @(#)emake.1t	1.4 7/23/93 ESI
.\" Copyright (c) 1987, 1990 Entropic Speech, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH EMAKE 1\-ESPS 7/23/93
.SH NAME
emake \- run make with the ESPS compilation environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B emake
[
\fImake flags and arguments\fR
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIemake\fR runs the Unix \fImake\fR(1) command and passes
it the ESPS compilation environment. 
.PP
The following macro definitions are passed to make:
.TS
tab(;);
l l.
AUDIOLIB;Path to audio library for SGI
BINDIR;The directory where ESPS executables go
CC;Name of C compiler
DEFAULT_PAGER;Default UNIX pager (i.e. more)
EQN;UNIX eqn command
LIBCFLAGS;CFLAGS for ESPS library functions
LIBDIR;The directory where the ESPS library and lint library are
LIBMOD;The mode of the ESPS library
LINK;Unix symbolic link command
LINT;The name of the lint program to use (eg. "att lint")
LINTFLAGS;Flags for use with lint
LLIBNAME;Name of lint library
MACH;Machine type code (i.e. SUN4, HP700, etc)
MANDIR;The parent of the man page directory (parent of man1, man3, etc)
MANMOD;The mode of the ESPS man pages
MKLINTLIB;Command to make the lint library
MOTIF_INC;Path to Motif include directory
MOTIF_LIB;Path to Motif libraries
OLDBIN;The directory where the previous version of executables go
PARAMDIR;The directory where default parameter files go
PLOTDIR;Directory where plot programs go that have cover programs
PROGCFLAGS;CFLAGS for ESPS programs
;contains -I to the correct include
;file directories
PROGMOD;The mode of ESPS executables
RANLIB;UNIX ranlib command
SINC;The directory of the ESPS include files 
;(eg.  /usr/esps/include/esps)
SPOOL_CMD;UNIX line printer spool command
SPSLIB;The full path of the ESPS library 
;(eg. /usr/esps/lib/libespsg.a).
SPSDIR;The parent ESPS install directory
STRIP;The UNIX strip command
SUNAUDIOLIB;Path to Sun audio library
WAVESDIR;The waves library directory
WINDOWS;Alternate window system libraries
WINLIBS;Paths to window system libraries
XVIEW_INC;Path to include directory for XView
XVIEW_LIB;Path to XView library
.TE
.SH "ESPS PARAMETERS"
.PP
The ESPS parameter file is not read.
.SH "ESPS HEADERS"
.PP
ESPS data files are not read or written.
.SH "WARNINGS"
.PP
No error messages are produced by these programs.  Various error and
warning messages are possible from cc, the loader and make.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cc(1), ld(1), make(1), ecc(1\-ESPS), elint(1\-ecc), lecc(1\-ESPS),
lelint(1\-ESPS)
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Alan Parker
