.\" Copyright (c) 1987-1990 AT&T, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1986-1990 Entropic Speech, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" @(#)xchart.1	1.7 10/3/97 ATT/ESI/ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH XCHART 1\-ESPS 10/3/97
.if t .ds - \(em\h'-0.5m'\(em
.if n .ds - ---
.if n .ds lq \&"\"
.if t .ds lq \&``
.if n .ds rq \&"\"
.if t .ds rq \&''
.de qI
.ie '\\$2'' \&\\*(lq\fI\\$1\fP\\*(rq
.el \&\\*(lq\fI\\$1\fP \\$2\\*(rq
..
.ds wD \fIwaves+ Manual\fP
.ds wR \fIwaves+ Reference\fP
.ds wT \fIIntroducing waves+\fP
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
xchart \-  time-series segment lattice display attachment for xwaves 
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B xchart
[
.BI \-c " host_X_registry"
] [
.BI \-n " host_name"
] [
.BI \-w " wave_pro"
]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.I xchart
is an
.I attachment
for the program
.IR xwaves (1\-ESPS):
a program that runs in close cooperation with
.I xwaves
and provides additional capabilities.
.I xchart
is an extension of the attachment
.IR xlabel (1\-ESPS):
it provides all the features of
.I xlabel
together with an additional display mode
for presenting collections of signal-segment labels
called \*(lqcharts\*(rq.
This manual entry briefly describes
.I xchart
but is not intended to be a complete
.I xchart
manual.
For full details of the special features of
.I xchart,
see the chapter
.qI xchart
in \*(wD
and the chapters
.qI xchart "reference"
and
.qI xchart "quick reference"
in \*(wR.
For details of the features that
.I xchart
shares with
.I xlabel
see the chapter
.qI xlabel
in \*(wD
and the chapters
.qI xlabel "reference"
and
.qI xlabel "quick reference"
in \*(wR.
Also see \*(wD and \*(wR for information about
.I xwaves.
.SS "Introduction"
.PP
An attachment is a program that extends the capabilities of
.I xwaves
while running as a separate UNIX process.
Attachments exchange information with
.I xwaves
by communicating through the X server,
using a communication protocol that is compatible with Tcl/Tk.
.PP
.I xchart,
an
.I xwaves
attachment, is an extended version of the attachment
.IR xlabel (1\-ESPS)
that provides the additional capability of manipulating displays of
.I charts.
A chart is a collection of possibly overlapping signal-segment labels
(for example, word hypotheses
from a speech recognizer's \*(lqfront end\*(rq).
Each segment label is displayed as horizontal bar,
indicating the extent of the segment,
along with an associated character string called a
.I symbol.
.I xchart
displays these segment labels in a window
that is time-aligned with the corresponding
.I xwaves
signal display.
.PP
.I xchart
builds the chart display from a
.I "chart file"
that contains segment boundary times, symbols,
and other information in ASCII form.
Several chart files can be displayed simultaneously in one
.I xchart
window, and
.I xlabel
label files can also be displayed in the same window.
.SS "Starting xchart"
You can start
.I xchart
in various ways.
The commonest way is to click the
.B xchart
button in the
.B Attach:
item of the main control panel.
Another way is to issue the
.I xwaves
command
.I attach.
.PP
.I xchart
and
.I xlabel
are actually the same program.
One executable binary program file can be given several names
through hard or symbolic links.
If invoked by the name \*(lqxchart\*(rq,
the program provides the special
.I xchart
features.
If invoked by another name (such as \*(lqxlabel\*(rq)
the program makes available only the standard
.I xlabel
features.
.PP
Once you have started
.I xchart,
a
.I "control panel"
appears.
This is similar to the
.I xlabel
control panel.
.PP
A
.I "chart window"
appears when a name is entered in the
.B "Object:"
item in the
.I xchart
control panel, or when an
.I xwaves
data display is created or changed.
The
.I "object"
name should be that of the associated
.I xwaves
display ensemble.
(The
.B Object:
item is usually set automatically by
.IR xwaves .)
.PP
A chart file is displayed in the window after the
.B "Chart File:"
item is filled in with a chart file name or after a
.I send make
command is sent from
.I xwaves.
.PP
All functions normally available in
.I xwaves
are active in conjunction with the chart display.
.PP
Selecting the
.B QUIT
button in the
.I xchart
control panel updates and closes all label files
and disconnects
.I xchart
from
.I xwaves.
.SS "The control panel"
.PP
The
.I xchart
control panel is similar to the
.I xlabel
panel, but with two more items.
The following items have the same functions in
.I xchart
as in
.IR "xlabel" :
.BR "Label File:" ,
.BR "Object:" ,
.BR "Active fields:" ,
.BR "Label Menu File:" ,
and
.BR "QUIT" .
Refer to \*(lqThe labeler control panel\*(rq in the chapter
.qI xlabel
of \*(wD for their description.
Moreover the
.B "xchart manual"
button is essentially the same as the
.I xlabel
.B "xlabel manual"
button except that you get
.I xchart
documentation instead of
.I xlabel
documentation.
The other two items are the following.
.TP
.B "Chart File:"
Enter the name of an existing chart file in this field
to display it in the chart/label display window.
The file must have the format described
in the section \*(lqChart files\*(rq below;
also see \*(lqThe chart file\*(rq in the chapter
.qI xchart
of \*(wD.
.TP
.B "Top Word:"
The entered symbol is scrolled to the top of its section
of the display window.
.SS "The chart/label display window"
The chart/label display window
.RI ( "chart window"
for short)
can display several chart and label files,
separated by horizontal lines.
The label files appear in the top part of the window
and are displayed in the same way as in
.I xlabel
windows.
.PP
A segment label is displayed as a horizontal line
with short vertical strokes at the ends
to mark the ends of the segment;
the associated symbol is printed in the middle.
.I xchart
devotes one line of text display to each distinct symbol
in the chart file.
One symbol may be assigned to any number of segments,
but they should not overlap in time.
Segments with different symbols may overlap arbitrarily.
.PP
There may be too many symbols for the available vertical space.
To deal with this situation there are two mechanisms
for vertically scrolling the chart.
One is under mouse/menu control as described below.
The other is to enter the symbol in the 
.B "Top Word:"
item in the control panel.
The (circular) list of segments is then scrolled to
bring the indicated symbol to the top.
.PP
The chart window tries to stay close to the
.I xwaves
window to which it is attached,
which is the most recently created window in the object
unless the window was created with an
.I xchart
.I make
command specifying a different signal.
The chart window is automatically resized, rescaled, and scrolled
to maintain alignment with the window to which it is attached.
When you move the mouse in the chart window,
the cursors in all
.I xwaves
windows of the same object
move so as to indicate the same time as the cursor in the chart window.
.PP
Clicking the right mouse button in a chart display
can pop up a menu that lets you select certain operations for execution
(see \*(lqChart menus\*(rq below or \*(lqThe
.I xchart
menu file\*(rq in the chapter
.qI xchart
of \*(wD).
.SS "Chart menus"
.PP
The optional menu used in the chart portion of the chart window
is similar to the regular
.I xlabel
menus used in the label portion, but is more limited.
The menu is specified in an
.I xchart
menu file.
See \*(lqThe
.I xchart
menu file\*(rq in the chapter
.qI xchart
of \*(wD for an example.
The first line may contain items
.I columns
or
.I rows
and
.I font
just as in
.I xlabel
menu files.
(See \*(lqMenu file format\*(rq in the chapter
.qI xlabel
of \*(wR.)
The rest of the file contains two items per line.
The left item appears in the menu,
while the right item must be one of the following four operations.
.TP
.I *UNLOAD*
unloads the chart under the mouse pointer from the display.
.TP
.I *UP*
scrolls the line under the mouse pointer
to the top of the chart display.
.TP
.I *DOWN*
scrolls the top line of the chart display
down to the mouse pointer location.
.TP
.I *SHELL*
takes the left-hand item to be a UNIX command
(e.g. the name of a program or shell script).
It executes the command with four arguments:
.RS
.IP (1) 5n
the name of the chartfile under the mouse pointer.
.IP (2) 5n
the symbol corresponding to the line in the chart display
under the mouse pointer.
.IP (3) 5n
the time (in seconds) corresponding to the mouse pointer X position.
.IP (4) 5n
the name of a temporary file that
.I xchart
will try to load (as a chartfile) when the program exits.
If
.I xchart
finds this file, it loads it immediately,
also maintaining the original display;
otherwise it does nothing further.
.RE
.IP
Thus the external command might be some operation that simplifies or
otherwise processes a chart, then redisplays the results.
Two examples are given under \*(lqUse of the
.I *SHELL*
command\*(rq in the chapter
.qI xchart
of \*(wD.
.PP
The
.I xchart
menu can be established by assigning a value to the variable
.I xchart_chartmenu
in the
.I .wave_pro
file or with the
.I xchart
command
.I make
or
.I set
sent via the
.I xwaves
command
.I send.
The chart menu should be specified before loading a chart.
See \*(lqInvoking the
.I xchart
menu\*(rq
in the chapter
.qI xchart
of \*(wD for example commands
and for details of the path used in searching for menu files.
.SS "Chart files"
.PP
The format of the ASCII chart file resembles that of
.I xlabel
label files.
It begins with a header, possibly empty,
consisting of keyword-value pairs separated by blanks or tabs.
Next comes a line, always required, starting with a \*(lq#\*(rq sign.
Then come the segment-label descriptions, one per line.
Here is an example.
.LP
.RS
.nf
.if t .ft I
signal long_utterance.sd
type 1
frequency 8000
color 124
comment created  Fri Jun  6 17:55:46 1997
comment ASR-44, version 3.2.1
font 6x9
#
12	0.234	0.456	0.77		foobar
12	0.567	1.987	0.97		foobar
15	0.267	1.456	0.27		barfoo
	.
	.
	.
.if t .ft P
.fi
.RE
.PP
If the
.I type
is 1, segment boundaries in the segment-label lines
are taken to be times in seconds.
If
.I type
is 2, they are interpreted as sample numbers.
If
.I type
is 2, the sampling frequency should be specified.
If not, 8000 Hz is assumed.
.PP
The keyword
.I frequency
indicates the sampling frequency in Hz, used when
.I type
is 2.
.PP
The
.I color
is an integer specifying the colormap table entry
to use when printing the symbols on the chart.
.PP
The
.I font
is the name of the character font used to display the chart file.
If multiple files are displayed, each can have its own font.
Although you can choose the fonts for the data display window,
there is currently no way to change the fonts used in the menus.
.PP
See \*(lqThe chart file\*(rq in the chapter
.qI xchart
of \*(wD for the semantics of
.I signal
and
.I comment.
.PP
After the \*(lq#\*(rq line come 5-item lines
that describe the segment labels.
Decimal points are optional.
The number of digits and the spacing between item are arbitrary.
Columns 1 and 4 are not currently used
and may have any numerical value.
Columns 2 and 3 indicate the beginning and end of the segment.
Column 5 is the symbol that labels the segment.
Multiple segment assignments for a given symbol
appear on separate lines,
which need not be consecutive.
The ordering of symbols in the chart display
is their order of first appearance in the chart file.
.SS "D/A output"
.PP
If D/A support is available from
.I xwaves,
an additional D/A playback feature is supported by
.I xchart.
Pressing the left mouse button
when the mouse pointer is on a particular segment label
plays back the corresponding segment
of a \*(lqplayable\*(rq signal displayed by
.I xwaves.
The region played is marked in the
.I xwaves
waveform window
in case you want to perform additional operations on that segment.
If the cursor is between two segment labels with the same symbol,
the interval from the end of the first to the beginning of the second
is played (and marked).
To the left of the first segment label on a line,
you get the interval from the beginning of the file
to the beginning of the segment.
To the right of the last segment label on a line, you get the interval
from the end of the segment to the end of the file.
.SS "Graphics export"
.PP
All the
.I xlabel
graphics output features are available in
.I xchart.
.SS "xchart symbols"
.PP
The
.I xchart
symbol set is an extension of the
.I xlabel
symbol set.
See
.qI xlabel "symbols"
in the chapter
.qI xlabel "reference"
of \*(wR
for the individual
.I xlabel
symbols and
.qI xchart "symbols"
in the chapter
.qI xchart "reference"
of \*(wR
for the
.I xchart
extensions.
.SS "xchart commands"
.PP
The
.I xchart
command set is an extension of the
.I xlabel
command set.
See
.qI xlabel "commands"
in the chapter
.qI xlabel "reference"
of \*(wR
for the individual
.I xlabel
commands and
.qI xchart "commands"
in the chapter
.qI xchart "reference"
of \*(wR
for the
.I xchart
extensions.
.qI xchart "command and symbol set"
in the chapter
.qI xchart
of \*(wD contains an example that shows how to use the program
.IR send_xwaves (1\-ESPS)
and the
.I xwaves
command
.I send
to control
.I xchart
from a UNIX shell script. 
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.I xchart
is usually started as a subordinate program by
.I xwaves.
In this case, you need not be concerned with the
command-line options presented below, and you may skip this section.
However, it is also possible to run
.I xchart
(and the other attachments) as sibling UNIX processes,
in which case it may be necessary
to specify one or more of the following options.
These are identical to the options for
.IR xlabel (1-ESPS).
.TP
.BI \-c " host_X_registry"
This is the name that the host program is registered under
for X server-based communications.
This option is intended to be supplied by
.I xwaves
when it runs
.I xchart.
.TP
.BI \-n " host_name"
This is the name of the program object with which
.I xchart
will be communicating.
When the host program is
.I xwaves,
this name is always the default value, \*(lqwaves\*(rq.
.TP
.BI \-w " wave_pro"
Specifies the startup profile to read.
This option is always used
when
.I xchart
is invoked by
.I xwaves,
in which case the specified profile
is a temporary file written by
.I xwaves
and containing the current state of the
.I xwaves
globals.
If
.B \-w
is not used (only possible if
.I xchart
is run from the shell),
.I xchart
attempts to read the file
.I .wave_pro.
In both cases the search path
.I $HOME:$ESPS_BASE/lib/waves
is used.
The search path used can be overridden
by setting the UNIX environment variable WAVES_PROFILE_PATH before starting
.I xwaves.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\*(wD,
.br
\*(wR,
.br
\*(wT,
.br
.IR cnvlab (1\-ESPS),
.IR formant (1\-ESPS),
.IR select (1\-ESPS),
.br
.IR xcmap (1\-ESPS),
.IR xlabel (1\-ESPS),
.IR xmarks (1\-ESPS),
.br
.IR xspectrum (1\-ESPS),
.IR xwaves (1\-ESPS)
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Occasionally,
when the vertical size of the label display window is changed manually,
.I xchart
insists on returning it to its previous size
or some other inappropriate height.
Multiple attempts will usually yield the desired effect.
This will eventually be fixed.
.PP
The chart file does
.I not
automatically adjust to time changes
caused by waveform segment deletion or insertion.
It is recommended that no waveform editing be performed
on files being viewed with
.I xchart.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Program by David Talkin at Entropic Research Laboratory,
based on his program
.IR xlabel (1\-ESPS).
This manual page largely extracted by Rod Johnson from
\*(wD,
derived ultimately from Talkin's original documentation
with contributions from others at Entropic.
