.\" Copyright (c) 1987 Entropic Speech, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.; All rights reserved
.\" @(#)addfeafld.3	1.8 29 Apr 1997 ESI/ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1991 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH ADD_FEA_FLD 3\-ESPSu 29 Apr 1997
.ds ]W "\fI\s+4\ze\h'0.05'e\s-4\v'-0.4m'\fP\(*p\v'0.4m'\ Entropic Speech, Inc.
.SH NAME
add_fea_fld \- add definition of new field to ESPS FEA file header
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <esps/esps.h>
#include <esps/fea.h>

int
add_fea_fld(name, size, rank, dimen, type, enums, hd)
char *name;
long size;
long *dimen;
short rank, type;
char **enums;
struct header *hd;
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I add_fea_fld
creates a new field in the in the ESPS Feature file pointed to by
\fIhd\fR.   The name of the field is given by \fIname\fR.  See
FEA(5\-ESPS) for the meaning of the arguments \fIsize, rank, dimen,
type,\fR and \fIenums\fR.  Note that *\fIdimen\fP has to remain 
"alive" after the call to \fIadd_fea_fld\fP, and can only be freed
after all calls to \fIallo_fea_rec\fP (3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1).  
.PP
The function returns 0 on success and -1 if \fIname\fR is already
defined as a field in this file.
.PP
If \fItype\fR is not \fB\s-1CODED\s+1\fR then \fB\s-1NULL\fR\s+1 should
be given for the argument \fIenums\fR.   If \fIrank\fR is less than 2,
then \fB\s-1NULL\fR\s+1 should be given for the argument \fIdimen\fR.  
.PP
This function should be called after the header \fIhd\fR is created and
before it is written out with the function \fIwrite_header\fR(3\-ESPSu).   
This function should only be used on headers to be written out.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
\fI/* create a short item of size 1 */\fR
if(add_fea_fld("short1",1,0,NULL,SHORT,NULL,hd) == -1) \fItrouble...\fR
.fi
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
\fIget_fea_type\fP (3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), \fIget_fea_siz\fP (3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), 
\fIallo_fea_rec\fP (3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), \fIget_fea_ptr\fP (3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), 
\fIget_fea_rec\fP (3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), \fIput_fea_rec\fP (3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), 
\fIget_fea_deriv\fP (3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), \fIset_fea_deriv\fP (3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), 
FEA(5\-ESPS)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Alan Parker
