.\" Copyright 1987, 1990 Entropic Speech Inc., all rights reserved
.\" @(#)addsourcef.3	1.5 29 Apr 1997 ESI
.TH ADD_SOURCE_FILE 3\-ESPSu 29 Apr 1997
.ds ]W "\fI\s+4\ze\h'0.05'e\s-4\v'-0.4m'\fP\(*p\v'0.4m'\ Entropic Speech, Inc.
.SH NAME
add_source_file \- add a source file name and header to header
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
void add_source_file(hd, name, srchd)
.br
struct header *hd, *srchd;
.br
char *name;
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I add_source_file
inserts a source file name (\fIname\fR) and header (\fIsrchd\fR) 
into the next available 
.I variable.source 
and 
.I variable.srchead 
positions in the header pointed to by \fIhd\fR.
The fields \fIvariable.nnames\fR and \fIvariable.nheads\fR are 
incremented.  Only pointers are copied, so the source fields must not be
altered before \fIwrite_header\fR is called.   
Note that either \fIname\fP or \fIsrchd\fP
may be NULL. If \fIname\fP is NULL,
the name "NONE" is added to \fIvariable.source\fP, and
\fIsrchd\fP is added to \fIvariable.srchead\fP.
If \fIsrchd\fP is NULL,
\fIvariable.source\fP is updated with \fIname\fP, but
\fIvariable.srchead\fP is left unchanged.
.PP
If the destination header does not have a foreign header (i.e.
\fIforeign_hd_length\fR generic is not defined or it is zero) and the
source header does have \fIforeign_hd_length\fR defined and greater than
zero and \fIforeign_hd_ptr\fR defined and non-NULL these generics are
copied from the source header to the destination header.   This has the
side effect of causing the foreign header of a source file to become a
foreign header of the destination header.   Since there can be only one
foreign header in a file, only the first foreign header encountered by
\fIadd_source_file\fR will be copied.
.SH EXAMPLE
.if n .ta 33
.if t .ta 3i
in_fd = fopen(in_name, "r");	/* get input file */
.br
out_fd = fopen(out_name, "w");	/* get output file */
.br
in_hd = read_header(in_fd);	/* read input header */
.br
out_hd = new_header(FT_ANA);	/* make new header 
.br
				   for output file */
.br
add_source_file(out_hd, in_name, in_hd);
.br
write_header(out_hd, out_fd);	/* write the new header */
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
There can be MAX_SOURCES included headers and source names.  
If this is exceeded, then
an error message is printed and the calling program is terminated.
Therefore, application programs should be careful to compare 
.I variable.nheads
with MAX_SOURCES before trying to add a header and
.I variable.nnames
with MAX_SOURCES before trying to add a source name.
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
ESPS(5\-ESPS), \fIwrite_header\fR(3\-ESPSu), \fInew_header\fR(3\-ESPSu), 
\fIread_header\fR(3\-ESPSu), \fIeopen\fR(3\-ESPSu), \fIadd_comment\fR(3\-ESPSu), 
\fIcopy_header\fR(3\-ESPSu)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Original version by Joe Buck.
.br
Modified by Alan Parker for new header structures.
