.\" Copyright (c) 1987 Entropic Speech, Inc.; All rights reserved
.\" @(#)anafearec.3	1.5 30 Apr 1997 ESI
.TH ANAFEA_REC 3\-ESPSu 30 Apr 1997
.ds ]W "\fI\s+4\ze\h'0.05'e\s-4\v'-0.4m'\fP\(*p\v'0.4m'\ Entropic Speech, Inc.
.SH NAME
.nf
allo_anafea_rec   \- allocate memory for FEA_ANA file record
get_anafea_rec    \- get the next data record from an ESPS FEA_ANA data file
init_anafea_hd    \- initialize an FEA file header for subtype FEA_ANA
put_anafea_rec    \- write the next data record of an ESPS FEA_ANA file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <esps/esps.h>
#include <esps/fea.h>
#include <esps/anafea.h>

struct anafea *
allo_anafea_rec(hd)
struct header *hd;

int
get_anafea_rec(data, hd, file)
struct anafea *data;
struct header *hd;
FILE *file;

int
init_anafea_hd(hd, order_vcd, order_unvcd, maxpulses, maxraw, 
	maxlpc, filt_nsiz, filt_dsiz)
struct	header *hd;
long	order_vcd;
long	order_unvcd;
long	maxpulses;
long	maxraw;
long	maxlpc;
short	filt_nsiz;
short	filt_dsiz;

void
put_anafea_rec(data, hd, file)
struct anafea *data;
struct header *hd;
FILE *file;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I allo_anafea_rec
allocates memory for a FEA_ANA file record and returns a pointer to it.
Since the size of the allocated record depends on values in the data
file header, it is important to be sure that a given FEA_ANA record is
consistent with the header of the file it is being used with.  (See
\fIinit_anafea_hd\fR(3\-ESPSu)).
Internally, \fIallo_anafea_rec\fR calls \fIallo_fea_rec\fR(3\-ESPSu)
and then hooks the FEA record up to a anafea struct.
.PP
.I get_anafea_rec
reads the next FEA_ANA record from stream \fIfile\fR into the data structure
pointed to by \fIdata\fR, which must have been allocated by means of 
a call to \fIallo_anafea_rec\fR(\3-ESPSu).  The parameter \fIhd\fR
points to the ESPS header in which the various FEA_ANA fields have been
defined.
An EOF is returned upon end of file.
A positive non-zero value is returned otherwise.  
.PP
.I Init_anafea_hd
takes a pointer 
.I hd
to an ESPS FEA header.  It sets
.I hd.hd.fea\->fea_type
to FEA_ANA and initializes the record-field definitions to define the
fields that make up a file of subtype FEA_ANA.  It does this
by means of calls to
.I add_fea_fld
(3\-ESPSu).  
For a description of the various FEA_ANA record fields, see FEA_ANA(5\-ESPS).
.PP
.I init_anafea_hd
also defines the generic header items described in FEA_ANA(5\-ESPS).  
The values of the following generic header items are set equal to 
the values of the corresponding parameter to \fIinit_anafea_hd\fR:
\fIorder_vcd, order_unvcd, maxpulses, maxraw, maxlpc, filt_nsiz\fR,
and \fIfilt_dsiz\fP. The value of the generic header item \fIfilters\fR
is set to NO if both \fIfilt_nsiz \fRand\fI filt_dsiz\fR
are zero; otherwise it is set to YES.
.I init_anafea_hd 
also creates the generic header items \fIspec_rep \fRand\fI src_sf\fR,
but it is left to the calling program to store appropriate values.  
.I init_anafea_hd
returns 1 if any of the internal calls to the function 
\fIadd_fea_fld\fR(3\-ESPSu)
return an error code.  Otherwise, it returns 0.  
.I init_anafea_hd
should only be called when creating a new FEA_ANA file, after  
calling \fInew_header\fR(3\-ESPSu).  
.PP
.I put_anafea_rec
writes an FEA_ANA data record pointed to by \fIdata\fR onto the stream
\fIfile\fR, which should be an open ESPS FEA_ANA file.   The header must
be written out to the FEA_ANA file before calling this function.   
.SH EXAMPLE
.sp .5
.if n .ta 33
.if t .ta 3i
\fB\s-1Reading an existing file:\s+1\fR
.sp .5
struct anafea *p;	
.br
struct header *ih;
.br
ih = read_header(file);	\fI/* read FEA_ANA file header */\fR
.br
p = allo_anafea_rec(ih);	\fI/* allocate record */\fR
.br
if(get_anafea_rec(p,ih,file) == EOF) . . .     \fI/* get next data record */\fR
.br
*p->frame_len = length;		\fI/* record reference */\fR

.nf
\fB\s-1Creating a new file:\s+1\fR
.sp .5
struct header *ih;
ih = new_header(FT_FEA);
\fI/*create FEA_ANA header for file without filters in the records*/\fR
if (init_anafea_hd(fea_oh, vord, uvord, pulses, raw, lpc, 0, 0) != 0) 
         ERROR_EXIT("error filling FEA header");
 .
 .
 .		
write_header(ih);
p = allo_anafea_rec(ih); 
 .
 .
 .
put_anafea_rec(p,ih,file);

.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If \fIhd\fR does not point to a FEA header of subtype
FEA_ANA, then the program terminates with an assertion failure.  
In \fIget_anafea_rec\fR, if an incomplete record is read a message
is printed on the standard error output.
In \fIput_anafea_rec\fR, if an I/O error occurs during the write,
a message is written to standard error and the program exits
with status 1.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.bp
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
\fIallo_fea_rec\fR(3-ESPSu), \fIcopy_header\fR(3\-ESPSu), \fIeopen\fR(3\-ESPSu),
\fInew_header\fR(3\-ESPSu), \fIread_header\fR(3\-ESPSu), FEA_ANA(5\-ESPS), 
FEA(5\-ESPS), ESPS(5\-ESPS)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
John Shore

