.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.; All rights reserved
.\" @(#)buildfilen.3	1.7 12 May 1997 ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1991 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH  BUILD_FILENAME 3\-ESPSu 12 May 1997
.SH NAME
.nf
build_filename \- expands environment variables into path name
.fi
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <esps/esps.h>

char *build_filename(into_string,filename,dirname)
char *into_string;
char *filename;
char *dirname;
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Function \fIbuild_filename\fR builds a complete path to a filename.  
The first
argument, \fIinto_string\fR, is a string that holds the resulting full path.
It should be large enough to hold the largest path your system supports. This
argument is also returned as the function result. NULL is not a valid argument.
.pp
The second argument, \fIfilename\fR, contains the basename of the file path.
Environment variables are not expanded in this component, so do not use them.
(See Future Changes.)
.pp
The third, argument, \fIdirname\fR, holds the directory name that is
to be expanded and concatenated with \fIfilename\fR to form the full
path. Environment variables will be expanded. You do not need to place 
a / at the end of \fIdirname\fR; it will be provided.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf

 build_filename(expandedFilename,"","/usr/bin/$ARCH");

.fi
.SH ERRORS AND DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
None.
.SH FUTURE CHANGES
.PP
Add environment variable expansion to the basename (filename) argument.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None known.
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
\fIfind_esps_file\fR(3\-ESPS), \fIbuild_esps_path\fR(3\-ESPS), \fIget_esps_base\fR(3\-ESPS)
.fi
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Ken Nelson wrote the routine and the man page.
