.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.; All rights reserved
.\" @(#)convertlab.3	1.3 30 Apr 1997 ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1991 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH  CONVERTLAB 3\-ESPSsp 30 Apr 1997
.SH NAME
convertlab \- convert NIST/SPHERE (e.g., TIMIT) label file to waves+
label file 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B

#include <stdio.h>
#include <esps/unix.h>
#include <esps/esps.h>

int
convertlab(file_in, file_out, sf, mode, lab_color, unl_color)
char *file_in;
char *file_out;
int  lab_color;	
int  unl_color;	
double sf;
int mode;			
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIconvertlab\fP reads the time-marked labels in a SPHERE (TIMIT)
label file \fIfile_in\fP, and writes an equivalent \fIwaves\fP+ 
label file \fIfile_out\fP.  The input file contains one label 
per line with three fields: (1) the starting sample number; (2) 
the ending sample number; and (3) the label text (which may include 
blanks).  
.PP
The parameter \fIsf\fP is the sampling rate to be assumed
by \fIconvertlab\fP when interpreting sample numbers.  
.PP
The output file \fIfile_out\fP contains one label per line (after 
an initial line with "#"), with three fields: (1) the time (in
seconds) of the label; (2) the color of the label (RGB); (3) the 
label text.  Note that labels do not have a start and end time.  By 
convention, the time of a waves+ label is the ending time.  
.PP
If \fImode\fP == 1, \fIconvertlab\fP produces one \fIwaves\fP+ label 
per input label, with the time corresponding to the ending sample 
number of the input label.  If the first input label does not begin with 
sample 0, \fIconverlab\fP issues a warning and generates a special 
label (with text "UNL", for "unlabelled") to mark the actual starting 
point of the first label.  If the ending time of one label is not the 
same as the starting point of the next label (a relatively rare case
in the NIST databases), \fIconvertlab\fP issues a warning.  If the 
ending time of one label exceeds the starting time of the next 
label, \fIconvertlab\fP issues a warning and also inserts a special 
label (again, with text "UNL") to mark the starting time of the 
that next label.  
.PP
If \fImode\fP == 2, \fIconvertlab\fP produces two \fIwaves\fP+ labels
per input label \- one each for the starting point and the ending
point.  The text for the former is the input label text with "_S" appended, 
and the text for the latter is the input label text with "_E"
appended.  
.PP
If \fImode\fP == 1, the default color of the \fIwaves\fP+ labels is 
set to \fIlab_color\fP, with the color of the special "UNL" labels 
set to \fIunl_color\fP.  If \fImode\fP == 2, the \fIwaves\fP+ endpoint
labels have color \fIlab_color\fP, and the starting point labels have
the color \fIunl_color\fP.   If \fIlab_color\fP or \fIunl_color\fP is 
negative, an internal default is used.  
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.SH ERRORS AND DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.SH FUTURE CHANGES
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
None known.
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fI \fIxlabel\fP (1\-\s-1ESPS\s+1)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
John Shore (with help from David Talkin)




