.\" Copyright (c) 1987 Entropic Speech, Inc.; All rights reserved
.\" @(#)copyfeafie.3	1.2 30 Apr 1997 ESI
.TH COPY_FEA_FIELDS 3\-ESPSu 30 Apr 1997
.ds ]W "\fI\s+4\ze\h'0.05'e\s-4\v'-0.4m'\fP\(*p\v'0.4m'\ Entropic Speech, Inc.
.SH NAME
copy_fea_fields \- replicate all feature field definitions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
#include <esps/fea.h>
.br
int
.br
copy_fea_fields(hd1, hd2)
.br
struct header *hd1;
.br
struct header *hd2;
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I copy_fea_fields
attempts to add a field definition 
to \fIhd1\fR for each record field found in
\fIhd2\fP.  That is, 
for each field definition in \fIhd2\fP, 
a corresponding field with the same name, size, rank, etc. is
created in \fIhd1\fP (see FEA(5\-ESPS) for details concerning
feature field definitions).   Only the field definitions are copied,
not the actual data contents of the fields.  
.PP
If the source file header (\fIhd2\fR) indicates that the
file is segment labeled,
the destination file header (\fIhd1\fR) is marked as segment labeled.
.PP
If a field with a particular name and size cannot be
created in \fIhd1\fP, the
program prints a warning message and exits.
The program prints a message on stderr and terminates
if either \fIhd1\fP or \fIhd2\fP do not point to ESPS Feature File
headers.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.nf
copy_fea_fields: dest is NULL.
copy_fea_fields: dest not FEA.
copy_fea_fields: src is NULL.
copy_fea_fields: src not FEA.
copy_fea_fields: couldn't add field to dest header.
.fi
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.nf
\fIadd_fea_fld\fR(3\-ESPSu), \fIcopy_fea_rec\fR(3\-ESPSu), 
\fIcopy_fea_fld\fR(3\-ESPSu), FEA(5\-ESPS)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Man page by David Burton.
