.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.; All rights reserved
.\" @(#)exvgethelp.3	1.1 05 May 1991 ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1991 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH  EXV_GET_HELP 3\-ESPSxu 05 May 1991
.SH NAME

.nf
exv_get_help \- creates XView frame containing text of man page or help file

exv_helpfile \- return file name containing cleaned man page or plain text

exv_make_text_window \- create XVIEW frame containing text of ASCII file

.fi
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <stdio.h>
#include <esps/esps.h>
#include <esps/exview.h>

extern int debug_level;
extern int do_color; 

int
exv_get_help(item, event)
Panel_item	item;
Event           *event;  

char *
exv_helpfile(progfile)
char *progfile;

Frame
exv_make_text_window(owner, window_title, icon_title, textfile, find, indep)
     Frame owner;		/* owning frame (may be NULL)*/
     char *window_title;	/* text window title */
     char *icon_title;		/* icon title (for independent windows)*/
     char *textfile;		/* text file */
     int  find;			/* whether or not to have find button */
     int indep;			/* if true, FRAME, else FRAME_CMD */

.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIexv_get_help\fP is a utility PANEL_NOTIFY_PROC suitable as a "Help"
button callback procedure, i.e., for creating help windows in ESPS XView
programs.  The function creates and displays a help window containing
the contents of an ASCII help file or unix-style man page.  The
resulting XView FRAME is returned by the function.  The owner of the 
returned frame is the frame containing the button that invokes 
\fIexv_get_help\fP.  
.PP
\fIexv_get_help\fP assumes that an ASCII string is passed via the key
EXVK_HELP_NAME; this item should be set set by the calling program to
contain either the name of an ESPS program (for which the man page is
desired) or the name of a pure-ASCII help-file.  If the string
contains a path specification (i.e., if it contains "/"),
\fIexv_get_help\fP assumes that the string contains a help file rather
than the name of an ESPS program.  In the former case,
\fIexv_get_help\fP just pops up a help window (complete with "Search
Forward", "Search Backward", and "Quit" buttons) and returns its
handle.  In the latter case, \fIexv_get_help\fP 
runs \fIeman\fP (1\-\s-1ESPS\s+1) on the name, cleans the output with an
\fIsed\fP() script, and pops up a help window containing the cleaned
text (again, complete with "Search Forward", "Search Backward", and
"Quit" buttons).  In this case, the temporary file containing the 
cleaned man page entry will be deleted after the help-window is 
destroyed.  
.PP 
\fIexv_get_help\fP also assumes that a window title is passed via 
the key EXV_HELP_TITLE and uses this in creating the help frame.  
If no such title is passed, a default of "ESPS Help Window" is used. 
In both cases, the window is given a standard ESPS icon with 
icon title set to "help".  
.PP
The function \fIexv_helpfile\fP is used by \fIexv_get_help\fP to 
clean the man page.  If \fIprogfile\fP contains a path specification
(i.e., if it contains "/"), a copy of the string \fIprogfile\fP is 
returned by \fIexv_helpfile\fP.  Otherwise, \fIexv_helpfile\fP 
assumes that \fIprogfile\fP is the name of an ESPS program.  It 
runs \fIeman\fP on \fIprogfile\fP, cleans the output with a suitable
\fIsed\fP script, and returns the name of a temporary file containing 
the cleaned text.  
.PP
Much of the work needed for \fIexv_get_help\fP() is performed by
\fIexv_make_text_window\fP, which is generally useful for displaying
the contents of an ASCII file and allowing the user to browse through
it.  In particular, \fIexv_make_text_window\fP creates a window
containing the contents of \fItextfile\fP, displays it, and returns
it's handle to the calling program.  The frame's owner is set to
\fIowner\fP, with the window and icon titles set respectively to
\fIwindow_title\fP and \fIicon_title\fP.  The icon used is a standard
ESPS icon, as created by \fIexv_attach_icon\fP (3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1xu).
If \fIindep\fP is set to USE_FRAME_INDEP, the new frame has no owner.
Otherwise (USE_FRAME_CMD), the new frame is created as a command frame
with a push-pin (FRAME_CMD) and the owner is set to \fIowner\fP.
.PP
IF \fIfind\fP == WITH_FIND_BUTTON, the help frame created by
\fIexv_make_text_window\fP will have a button panel containing "Quit",
"Search Forward", and "Search Backward" buttons.  Otherwise
(WITHOUT_FIND_BUTTON), the frame will just contain \fItextfile\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf


  Panel_item button;		
  Frame help_win, prog_frame; 
  char *title, *helpfile, *help_title, *helpname

  if (helpname != NULL) {
    button = xv_create(con_panel, PANEL_BUTTON,
		       XV_KEY_DATA, EXVK_HELP_TITLE,  help_title,
		       XV_KEY_DATA, EXVK_HELP_NAME, helpname,
		       PANEL_LABEL_STRING,  "Help",
		       PANEL_NOTIFY_PROC,   exv_get_help,
		       NULL);
   }

   . . . 

   help_win = exv_make_text_window(prog_frame, title, "help", helpfile, 
				WITH_FIND_BUTTON, USE_FRAME_CMD);

.fi

.SH ERRORS AND DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.SH FUTURE CHANGES
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
The algorithm for cleaning man pages doesn't work on HP300 and
Masscomp systems.
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fIe_temp_name\fP (3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1u), \fIexv_attach_icon\fP
(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1xu)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Program and man page by John Shore.  Program improvements by Alan
Parker





