.\" Copyright (c) 1987 Entropic Speech, Inc.; All rights reserved
.\" @(#)feaderiv.3	1.2 06 May 1997 ESI
.TH FEA_DERIV 3\-ESPSu 06 May 1997
.ds ]W "\fI\s+4\ze\h'0.05'e\s-4\v'-0.4m'\fP\(*p\v'0.4m'\ Entropic Speech, Inc.
.SH NAME
.nf
get_fea_deriv \- see if FEA field is derived, and get source fields
set_fea_deriv \- declare FEA field to be derived and give source fields
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <esps/esps.h>
#include <esps/fea.h>

char **
get_fea_deriv(name, hd)
char *name;
struct header *hd;

int
set_fea_deriv(name, srcfields, hd)
char *name;
char **srcfields;
struct header *hd;
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I get_fea_deriv
is called with the header to an ESPS feature file
and a name of a field in that file.
If the field is a derived field, 
.I get_fea_deriv
returns the list of source fields.
If \fIname\fR is not a derived field, or is not a field in the
feature file, then the function returns NULL.
See
\fIFEA(5\-ESPS)\fR for a detailed discussion of the meaning and format of 
.I srcfields.
.PP
.I set_fea_deriv
declares an existing FEA file field to be derived and provides 
a list of source fields.  
The name of the field is given by \fIname\fR, and the source fields
are given by 
.I srcfields.
See
\fIFEA(5\-ESPS)\fR for a detailed discussion of the meaning and format of 
.I srcfields. 
The function returns 0 on success and -1 if \fIname\fR is not 
defined as a field in this file.
This function should be called after the header \fIhd\fR is created
and fields are defined with \fIadd_fea_fld\fR(3\-ESPSu),
but before using \fIwrite_header\fR(3\-ESPSu).
This function should only be used on headers to be written out.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf

if((svecsrces = get_fea_deriv("svector", hd) != NULL) /*print source fields*/
    for (i = 0; svecsrces[i] != NULL; i++) 
	fprintf(stdout, "%s\\n", svecsrces[i]);

char *svecsrces[] = {"raw_power[0]", "spec_param[1,3:5]", NULL};
\fI/* create a short item of size 5 */\fR
if(add_fea_fld("svector",1,0,NULL,SHORT,NULL,hd) == -1) \fItrouble...\fR
if(set_fea_deriv("svector", svecsrces, hd) == -1) \fItrouble...\fR
.fi
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
add_fea_fld(3\-ESPSu), allo_fea_rec(3\-ESPSu), get_fea_rec(3\-ESPSu),
get_fea_ptr(3\-ESPSu), put_fea_rec(3\-ESPSu), FEA(5\-ESPS)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Manual page by John Shore.  
