.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" @(#)getespsbas.3	1.5 18 Apr 1997 ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH GET_ESPS_BASE 3\-Eu 18 Apr 1997
.SH NAME
.nf
get_esps_base \- returns a string pointing to esps base directory. 
.fi
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <esps/esps.h>
char *get_esps_base(char *base_name)
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Returns a string (char *) containing the path to the ESPS base
directory.  Uses the environment variable ESPS_BASE if it exists,
else uses the default "/usr/esps".  The path is placed in the
string parameter \fIbase_name\fR which is also returned from the
function.  The argument provided as \fIbase_name\fR
should be large enough to hold the maximum path length of the
Unix you are running.  If \fIbase_path\fR is NULL then
a newly allocated string containing the ESPS base path is returned.
You should deallocate the string when you are done with it.
.PP
The ESPS base directory is the top of the ESPS release tree.
Examples of the useful directories found here are \fIlib\fR, \fIbin\fR, 
\fIman\fR, and \fIdemo\fR. 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
char espsbase[255];
.br
(void) get_esps_base(espsbase);  /* string is provided */
.PP
char *espsbase;
.br
espsbase = get_esps_base(NULL);  /* allocates new string */
.SH ERRORS AND DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
None.  Always returns something unless too small a string is provided
which could cause problems if other memory addresses are overwritten.
.SH FUTURE CHANGES
.PP
None known.
.SH BUGS
.PP
If the user provided string is too small then who knows what will happen.
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.nf
\fIfind_esps_file\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1u), \fIbuild_filename\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1u), 
\fIget_esps_base\fP(1\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIfind_esps_file\fP(1\-\s-1ESPS\s+1)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Ken Nelson wrote the routine and the man page.
.PP



