.\" Copyright (c) 1987-1990 Entropic Speech, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" @(#)getfeasiz.3	1.8 18 Apr 1997 ESI/ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH GET_FEA_SIZ 3\-ESPSu 18 Apr 1997
.SH NAME
get_fea_siz \- get the size information for a ESPS FEA file field
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <esps/esps.h>
#include <esps/fea.h>

long
get_fea_siz(name, hd, rank, dimen)
char *name;
struct header *hd;
short *rank;
long **dimen;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I get_fea_siz
returns the size of the Feature file field \fIname\fR in the header
pointed to by \fIhd\fR.  The size is the number of elements of the
particular data type, not the size in units like bytes or chars.  The
function also returns through the pointers \fIrank\fR and \fIdimen\fR
the information associated with this field from the header items
\fIhd.fea->ranks\fR and \fIhd.fea->dimens\fR.  \fIrank\fR indicates
the number of dimensions the field has (0 for scaler, 1 for vector, 2
for matrix, etc.).  \fIdimen\fR is the address of an array of longs
that is set to the dimensions of the field.  The size of the array is the
equal to the value of \fI*rank\fR.  (see \fIFEA\fR(5\-ESPS).
.PP
If \fIname\fR is not a defined field name in the Feature file (or is
NULL) the function returns 0.    The function can be called with NULL
for \fIrank\fR or \fIdimen\fR if that value is not desired.   
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
short size, rank;
long *dimen;

size = get_fea_siz("zeta",hd,&rank,&dimen);

size = get_fea_siz("zeta",hd,(short *)NULL,(long **)NULL);  \fI/* return only size */\fR
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
If \fIhd\fR does not point to a ESPS Feature file 
a message is printed and the program terminates with an exit 1.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
\fIget_fea_type\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), \fIallo_fea_rec\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1),
\fIadd_fea_fld\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), \fIget_fea_ptr\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1),
\fIget_fea_rec\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), \fIput_fea_rec\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1),
\fIget_fea_deriv\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), \fIset_fea_deriv\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1)
FEA(5\-ESPS)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Alan Parker
