.\" Copyright (c) 1987-1990 Entropic Speech, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" @(#)getfeatype.3	1.4 18 Apr 1997 ESI/ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH GET_FEA_TYPE 3\-ESPSu 18 Apr 1997
.SH NAME
get_fea_type \- return the type of a FEA file field
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
#include <esps/fea.h>
.br
short
.br
get_fea_type(name, hd)
.br
char	*name;
.br
struct header *hd;
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I get_fea_type
returns the type of the feature field \fIname\fP from the ESPS
Feature File header \fIhd\fP.  Valid types are DOUBLE, FLOAT, LONG,
SHORT, CODED, and CHAR.  These are defined in <esps/esps.h>.
.PP
If \fIname\fP is NULL or if it does
not exist in \fIhd\fP, the type returned is UNDEF.
The program prints a message on stderr and terminates
if either \fIhd\fP does not point to an ESPS Feature File
header.
.SH EXAMPLE
.if n .ta 33
.if t .ta 3i
.nf

struct header *hd;
int	type;

if ((type = get_fea_type("field_name", hd)) == UNDEF) . . . /* trouble */
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.nf
get_fea_type: called with non fea hd
.fi
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.nf
\fIget_fea_siz\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), \fIallo_fea_rec\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1),
\fIadd_fea_fld\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), \fIget_fea_ptr\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1),
\fIget_fea_rec\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), \fIput_fea_rec\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1),
\fIget_fea_deriv\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1), \fIset_fea_deriv\fP(3\-\s-1ESPSu\s+1),
FEA(5\-ESPS)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Man page by Ajaipal S. Virdy, Entropic Speech, Inc.
