.\" Copyright (c) 1987-1990 Entropic Speech, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" @(#)getgenrecd.3	1.5 18 Apr 1997 ESI/ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH GET_GEN_RECD 3\-ESPSu 18 Apr 1997
.SH NAME
get_gen_recd \- get an arbitrary ESPS record as doubles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
#include <esps/esps.h>
.br
int
.br
get_gen_recd(dbuf, tagp, hd, file)
.br
double *dbuf;
.br
long *tagp;
.br
struct header *hd;
.br
FILE *file;
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I get_gen_recd
gets the next record (including the tag, if any) from an ESPS
file.  All fields in the record are converted to
double type.
.PP
The data is read
from stream \fIfile\fR into the buffer pointed to by \fIdbuf\fR.
The ESPS file header pointed to by \fIhd\fR is consulted to determine
the number of elements to read and the types of each.
The data are converted to double if necessary.
If the file does not contain tags, the longword pointed to by
.I tagp
is set to zero.
.PP
The stream is assumed to point to the beginning of a record.
It is left pointing to the subsequent record after the call.
The
.I data
array is assumed to be large enough to hold a record.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
double data[100];	/* room for 100 samples */
long tag;
hd = read_header(file);	/* read header */
if ((get_gen_recd(data,&tag,hd,file) == EOF) 
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
EOF is returned on end of file.  The number of elements read is
returned otherwise.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
ESPS(5\-ESPS)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Joe Buck, Alan Parker
