.\" Copyright (c) 1987-1990 Entropic Speech, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" @(#)getsdrec.3	1.3 18 Apr 1997 ESI/ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH GET_SD_REC 3\-ESPSu 18 Apr 1997
.SH NAME
.nf
get_sd_recd \- get data from an ESPS sampled-data file in DOUBLE format
get_sd_recf \- get data from an ESPS sampled-data file in FLOAT format
get_sd_recs \- get data from an ESPS sampled-data file in SHORT format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
#include <esps/esps.h>
.sp
int
.br
get_sd_recd(dbuf, nsmpls, hd, file)
.br
double *dbuf;
.br
int nsmpls;
.br
struct header *hd;
.br
FILE *file;
.sp
int
.br
get_sd_recf(fbuf, nsmpls, hd, file)
.br
float *fbuf;
.br
int nsmpls;
.br
struct header *hd;
.br
FILE *file;
.sp
int
.br
get_sd_recs(sbuf, nsmpls, hd, file)
.br
short *sbuf;
.br
int nsmpls;
.br
struct header *hd;
.br
FILE *file;
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.I get_sd_rec
functions attempt to read the next \fInsmpls\fP ESPS sampled-data records 
from stream \fIfile\fP
into the buffer pointed to by \fIdbuf\fP, \fIfbuf\fP, or \fIsbuf\fP,
and they return the actual number of samples read.
If no samples are read (end of file), zero is returned.
The ESPS file header pointed to by \fIhd\fR is consulted for the type
of data in the file. The data is converted to double, float, or
short if necessary.
If fewer than the requested \fInsmpls\fR points are read (because
end of file is reached), \fIdbuf\fR, \fIfbuf\fR, or \fIsbuf\fR
is zero-filled.
.PP
The file may be either an SD file (see
.IR SD (5\-ESPS))
or a
.I single-channel
FEA_SD file (see
.IR FEA_SD (5\-ESPS)).
These functions were originally written for use with the SD file type,
which is being replaced with FEA_SD.
Limited FEA_SD support is provided in these functions
to help in converting existing programs
from using SD files to using FEA_SD files.
More complete FEA_SD support is provided by the function
.IR get_feasd_recs (3\-ESPSu),
which should be used in all new programs.
.SH EXAMPLE
double data[100];		/* room for 100 samples */
.br
hd = read_header(file);	/* read header */
.br
if ((get_sd_recd(data,100,hd,file) == 0) \fIeof or problem ... \fR
.br
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If \fIhd\fR does not point to the header
of an SD file or a single-channel FEA_SD file,
then an error message is printed on stderr,
and the program is terminated with exit status 1.
In an SD file, if the header type information is not set,
then an error message is printed on stderr,
and the program is terminated with exit status 1.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
ESPS(5\-ESPS), SD(5\-ESPS), FEA_SD(5\-ESPS),
\fIget_sd_orecf\fP(3\-ESPSu), \fIget_sd_orecs\fP(3\-ESPSu),
\fIget_sd_orecd\fP(3\-ESPSu), \fIget_feasd_recs\fP(3\-ESPS),
\fIget_feasd_orecs\fP(3\-ESPS)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Alan Parker
