.\" Copyright (c) 1987-1990 Entropic Speech, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" @(#)getsymdef.3	1.2 18 Apr 1997 ESI/ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH GETSYMDEF 3\-ESPSu 18 Apr 1997
.SH "NAME"
getsymdef_c, getsymdef_d, getsymdef_i, getsymdef_s, getsymdef_ia, getsymdef_da, getsymdef_fa  - get default parameter value from the symbol table created by read_params
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <stdio.h>
.br
.B #include <esps/param.h>
.PP
.B char getsymdef_c (symbol)
.br
.B char	*symbol;
.PP
.B double getsymdef_d (symbol)
.br
.B char	*symbol;
.PP
.B int getsymdef_i (symbol)
.br
.B char	*symbol;
.PP
.B char *getsymdef_s (symbol)
.br
.B char	*symbol;
.PP
.B int getsymdef_ia (symbol, arr, maxval)
.br
.B char	*symbol;
.br
.B int arr[];
.br
.B int maxval;
.PP
.B int getsymdef_da (symbol, arr, maxval)
.br
.B char	*symbol;
.br
.B double arr[];
.br
.B int maxval;
.PP
.B int getsymdef_fa (symbol, arr, maxval)
.br
.B char	*symbol;
.br
.B float arr[];
.br
.B int maxval;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The functions all read the specified \fIsymbol\fP from the symbol
table created by \fIread_params\fP and return its default value, either a
character, double, integer, string, pointer to an array of integers or
a pointer to an array of doubles.  If a definite value was given in
the parameter file (i.e., if the assignment operator "=" was used),
these functions all return the same value as the corresponding
\fIgetsym\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1) function.  
.PP
.I getsymdef_c
returns a character if and only if \fIsymbol\fP exists in the symbol
table and the symbol is a character.  Otherwise, it returns a zero.
.PP
.I getsymdef_d
returns a double if and only if \fIsymbol\fP exists in the symbol
table and the symbol is a float or a double.  Otherwise, it returns a
zero.
.PP
.I getsymdef_i
returns an integer if and only if \fIsymbol\fP exists in the symbol
table and the symbol is an integer.  Otherwise, it returns a zero.
.PP
.I getsymdef_s
returns a string if and only if \fIsymbol\fP exists in the symbol
table and the symbol is a string.  Otherwise, it returns NULL.
.PP
.I getsymdef_ia, getsymdef_da,
and
.I getsymdef_fa
all read the specified \fIsymbol\fP from the symbol table and return
the length of the array \fIarr\fP.  \fImaxval\fP is an input parameter
specifying the maximum length of the array \fIarr\fP.  If \fIsymbol\fP
does not exist in the symbol table, then these functions return a -1.
If the length of \fIarr\fP is greater than \fImaxval\fP, then these
functions return a zero and they print a message on stderr.  A pointer
to the default data from the symbol table is passed through \fIarr\fR.
.PP
.I getsymdef_da
and
.I getsymdef_fa
return entries from the parameter file that are declared as type float.
The values returned are the same; the only difference is that one
returns an array of floats and the other returns doubles.
.PP
Unlike the \fIgetsym\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1) functions, these functions
do not provide feedback in terms of Common processing.  However, note
that \fIread_params\fP may process Common when creating the symbol
table, so a default value returned by \fIgetsymdef\fP may have
originated in ESPS Common (see \fIread_params\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1)).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Undefined Symbol:  \fIsymbol\fP
.br
Not a valid real value
.br
Not a valid integer
.br
Symbol \fIsymbol\fP is not (symbol-type)
.br
Array \fIsymbol\fP is too long to fit into supplied buffer
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.nf
\fIread_params\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIgetsym\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIsymerr_exit\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1),
\fIputsym\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIfputsym\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIsymtype\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1),
\fIsymsize\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIsymlist\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIsymdefinite\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1),
\fIsymchoices\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIsymrange\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIsymprompt\fP(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1)
.fi
.SH "REFERENCES"
[1] ETM-S-86-12:jtb, Parameter Files in the Speech Processing System
.SH "AUTHOR"
man page by John Shore. 
