.\" Copyright (c) 1987-1990 Entropic Speech, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" @(#)linsearch.3	1.6 18 Apr 1997 ESI/ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH LIN_SEARCH 3\-ESPSu 18 Apr 1997
.SH NAME
.nf
lin_search \- case-insensitive search on a NULL-terminated array of strings
lin_search2 \- case-sensitive search on a NULL-terminated array of strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
int
.br
lin_search(array, text)
.br
char *text, *array[];

.br
int
.br
lin_search2(array, text)
.br
char *text, *array[];
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I lin_search
and
.I lin_search2
search
.I array,
which is assumed to be a NULL-terminated array of character pointers.
The functions return the index of the string in
.I array
that matches the string
.I text.
If there is no match, \-1 is returned.
.I lin_search
ignores the case of letters in
.I text,
but the strings in
.I array
must all be upper-case.
.I lin_search2
requires the string in
.I array
to match
.I text
exactly.
.PP
.I lin_search
is intended to be used to get the numeric values
associated with compile time
.BR #define s
used for analysis methods and codes.
For each header item defined in \fI<esps/header.h>\fR that 
takes a numeric value associated with a compile time \fB#define\fR,
there is a NULL terminated array of strings that contains the string
representations of those compile time values.   This array provides a
run-time mapping between the \fB#define\fR names and the values.
.PP
.I lin_search2
is suitable for searching for field names in the array
.IR hd.fea \-> names
in a FEA-file header,
searching for CODED values in the arrays
.IR hd.fea \-> enums [ i ]
in a FEA-file header,
and searching for CODED values in the array
.I codes
in a generic-header
.RI ( gen_hd )
structure.
.SH EXAMPLE
For the header item \fIequip\fR the possible values are (from
\fI<esps/header.h>\fR):
.nf
\fB#define\fR EF12M	1
\fB#define\fR AD12F	2
\fB#define\fR DSC		3
\fB#define\fR LPA11	4
.fi
.PP
The following statement in the library defines the array
\fIequip_codes\fR:
.nf
\fBstatic char\fR *equip_codes[] = {"NONE", "EF12M", "AD12F", "DSC", "LPA11", NULL};
.fi
.PP
If the application program reads a string into \fItext\fR that should contain
an equipment type, the the program can get the numeric code by:
.nf
\fI/* say text is "EF12M" */\fR
equip_type = lin_search(equip_codes,text);
\fI/* the function will return 1 */\fR
.fi
.PP
The programmer must consult \fI<esps/header.h>\fR to get the valid
values and the name of the array associated with each header item.
The required \fBextern\fR declarations are in \fI<esps/header.h>\fR.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
ESPS(5\-ESPS), FEA(5\-ESPS)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Alan Parker
