.\" Copyright (c) 1987-1990 Entropic Speech, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" @(#)macros.3	1.6 18 Apr 1997 ESI/ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1997 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH MACROS 3\-ESPSu 18 Apr 1997
.SH NAME
macros \- useful macros for ESPS programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
#include <esps/esps.h>
.sp
TRYOPEN(prog,filename,mode,fd)
.br
char *prog,*filename,*mode;
.br
FILE *fd;
.sp
CANTOPEN(prog,filename)
.br
char *prog, *filename;
.sp
USAGE(text)
.br
char *text;
.sp
NOTSPS(prog,filename)
.br
char *prog,*filename;
.sp
BOOL(arg)
.br
int arg;
.sp
ROUND (arg)
.br
float arg;
.sp
LROUND (arg)
.br
float arg;
.sp
MAX (a,b)
.sp
MIN (a,b)
.sp
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The TRYOPEN macro attempts to open a file with fopen(3), using the given
mode, which may be "r", "w", or any other mode allowed by fopen(3). If the
file cannot be opened, a message is printed on the error output of the
form
.nf

program: can't open filename: reason

.fi
and the program exits with error status 1. The reason text is obtained from
the perror(3) call, which interprets the system error status. Examples include
"no such file or directory" or "permission denied".
.PP
The CANTOPEN macro is invoked by TRYOPEN; it may also be invoked directly.
It just prints the error message described above and causes an exit with
error status 1.
.PP
The USAGE macro prints the message
.nf

Usage: text

.fi
on the error output and causes a program exit with error status 1.
.PP
The NOTSPS macro prints an error message of the form
.nf

program: filename is not an ESPS file

.fi
on the error output and causes an exit with error status 1.
.PP
The BOOL macro returns true (1) if the argument is 1, 'y', or 'Y', and false
(0) otherwise. It is useful for testing ESPS header values or parameter file
values.
.PP
The ROUND macro is used to round a floating value to the nearest integer
value.   This is used for floating to integer conversions when rounding
is desired, rather than truncation.
.PP
The LROUND macro is like ROUND, but it returns a type LONG.
.PP
MIN and MAX return the maximum or minimum of their arguments.  They can
be used with any data type.
