.\" Copyright (c) 1987, 1989 Entropic Speech, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" @(#)putsdrec.3	1.3 21 Apr 1997 ESI
.TH PUT_SD_REC 3\-ESPSu 21 Apr 1997
.ds ]W "\fI\s+4\ze\h'0.05'e\s-4\v'-0.4m'\fP\(*p\v'0.4m'\ Entropic Speech, Inc.
.SH NAME
.nf
put_sd_recd \- put data onto an ESPS sampled-data file from DOUBLE data
put_sd_recf \- put data onto an ESPS sampled-data file from FLOAT data
put_sd_recs \- put data onto an ESPS sampled-data file from SHORT data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
#include <esps/esps.h>
.sp
.br
void
.br
put_sd_recd(dbuf, nsmpls, hd, file)
.br
double *dbuf;
.br
int nsmpls;
.br
struct header *hd;
.br
FILE *file;
.sp
.br
void
.br
put_sd_recf(fbuf, nsmpls, hd, file)
.br
float *fbuf;
.br
int nsmpls;
.br
struct header *hd;
.br
FILE *file;
.sp
.br
void
.br
put_sd_recs(sbuf, nsmpls, hd, file)
.br
short *sbuf;
.br
int nsmpls;
.br
struct header *hd;
.br
FILE *file;
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I put_sd_rec
functions
write \fInsmpls\fR ESPS sampled-data records 
pointed to by \fIdbuf\fR, \fIfbuf\fR, or \fIsbuf\fR
onto the stream \fIfile\fR,
which should be an open ESPS SD file or
.I single-channel
FEA_SD file.
The header must be written out to the file before calling this function.
The ESPS file header pointed to by \fIhd\fR is consulted
for the type representation of the data in the file, and the data is
converted if necessary.
The type information must be set in the header before calling this function;
see \fIset_sd_type\fR(3\-ESPSu) for SD files and
.IR init_feasd_hd (3-ESPSu)
for FEA_SD files.
.PP
These functions were originally written for use with the SD file type,
which is being replaced with FEA_SD.
Limited FEA_SD support is provided in these functions
to help in converting existing programs
from using SD files to using FEA_SD files.
More complete FEA_SD support is provided by
.IR put_feasd_recs (3-ESPSu),
which should be used in all new programs.
.SH EXAMPLE
double data[100];			/* room for 100 samples */
.br
(void) put_sd_recd(data, 100, hd, file);/* write them out */
.br
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If \fIhd\fR does not point to the header
of an SD or single-channel FEA_SD file,
then an error message is printed on
.I stderr,
and the program is terminated with exit status 1.
In an SD file, if the type of the data in the output file hasn't been set yet,
then an error message is printed on
.I stderr,
and the program terminates with exit status 1.
A file error will cause a message to be printed on stderr,
and the program will terminate with exit status 1.
.SH SEE ALSO
ESPS(5\-ESPS), SD(5\-ESPS), FEA_SD(5\-ESPS),
.br
set_sd_type(3\-ESPSu), init_feasd_hd(3\-ESPSu), put_feasd_recs(3\-ESPSu), 
get_feasd_recs(3\-ESPS), get_feasd_orecs(3\-ESPS)
.SH AUTHOR
Alan Parker
