.\" Copyright (c) 1987 Entropic Speech, Inc.; All rights reserved
.\" @(#)putsym.3	1.7 21 Apr 1997 ESI
.TH PUTSYM 3\-ESPSu 21 Apr 1997
.ds ]W "\fI\s+4\ze\h'0.05'e\s-4\v'-0.4m'\fP\(*p\v'0.4m'\ Entropic Speech,, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
.nf
putsym_f, putsym_i, putsym_s - put a parameter value into an ESPS Common file
fputsym_f, fputsym_i, fputsym_s - put a parameter value into an arbitrary file
.fi
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <stdio.h>
.br
.B #include <esps/esps.h>
.PP
.B int putsym_f (symbol, value)
.br
.B char	*symbol;
.br
.B float value;
.PP
.B int putsym_i (symbol, value)
.br
.B char	*symbol;
.br
.B int value;
.PP
.B int putsym_s (symbol, value)
.br
.B char	*symbol;
.br
.B char *value;
.PP
.B int fputsym_f (symbol, value, file)
.br
.B char	*symbol;
.br
.B float value;
.br
.B char *file;
.PP
.B int fputsym_i (symbol, value, file)
.br
.B char	*symbol;
.br
.B int value;
.br
.B char *file;
.PP
.B int fputsym_s (symbol, value, file)
.br
.B char	*symbol;
.br
.B char *value;
.br
.B char *file;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.I putsym_f,
.I putsym_i,
and
.I putsym_s,
all write the specified \fIsymbol\fP and its \fIvalue\fP
into an ESPS Common file if Common processing is enabled.
.PP
ESPS Common processing may be disabled by setting the environment
variable USE_ESPS_COMMON to "off".  The default ESPS Common file 
is .espscom in the user's home directory.  This may be overidden by setting
the environment variable ESPSCOM to the desired path.  
If Common processing is disabled, then these functions simply return
without doing anything.
.PP
.I fputsym_f,
.I fputsym_i,
and
.I fputsym_s,
all write the specified \fIsymbol\fP and its \fIvalue\fP into 
an arbitrary named file \fIfile\fP.  Their behavior does 
not depend on whether or not Common processing is enabled.  
.PP
In all cases, a return value of zero indicates success and a return
value of -1 indicates error (i.e. the Common file or specified file
could not be updated or created).
.PP
The output for all these functions is written in the same format as
ESPS Parameter files (see [1] for more details).  (Definite
assignments are used, without the optional prompt string and parameter
limitations).  Values written with
these functions can be read with \fIgetsym_xx\fP.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf
/* parameter values to store in an ESPS Common file */
start = 5001;
dcrem = "no";

if (putsym_i ("start", start) != 0)
   (void) fprintf (stderr, "could not write into ESPS Common file.\n");
if (putsym_s ("dcrem", dcrem) != 0)
   (void) fprintf (stderr, "could not write into ESPS Common file.\n");

.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fIread_params\fP (3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIsymerr_exit\fP
(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIgetsym\fP (3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIgetsymdef\fP
(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIsymtype\fP (3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIsymsize\fP
(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), 
.br
\fIsymlist\fP (3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIsymdefinite\fP
(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIsymchoices\fP (3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIsymrange\fP
(3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIsymprompt\fP (3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1),
\fIsymerr_exit\fP (3\-\s-1ESPS\s+1)
.SH "REFERENCES"
[1] ETM-S-86-12:jtb, Parameter Files in the Speech Processing System
.SH "AUTHOR"
Ajaipal S. Virdy, Alan Parker, John Shore
