.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.; All rights reserved
.\" @(#)readolwmme.3	1.1 22 Apr 1991 ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1991 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH  READ_OLWM_MENU 3\-Exu 22 Apr 1991
.SH NAME

.nf
read_olwm_menu \- read a menu file in OPEN LOOK window manager (olwm) format
print_olwm_menu \- print a menu file read by read_olwm_menu
.fi
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <esps/esps.h>
#include <esps/exview.h>

menudata *
read_olwm_menu(menu_file)
char *menu_file;

void
print_olwm_menu(men)
menudata *men;

.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIread_olwm_menu\fP reads the file \fImenu_file\fP and assumes that
it is an ASCII file containing a menu specification in the format as
menu files for the OPEN LOOK window manager \fIolwm\fP (same as
\fIsunview\fP menu files).  For details about the format of menu
files, see \fIolwm\fP(1) \- the manual page is included in the ESPS
distribution.  The simplest case for \fImenu_file\fP is a file with
two columns \- item names are taken from the first column and the
corresponding execution strings are taken from the second column.  If
blanks are needed in the button labels, use quotes to surround the
string in the first column.  Do not use quotes in the execution
strings unless they are part of the command (you may have to escape
them).  More complicated cases (e.g., with submenus) can be created
using the full syntax of \fIolwm\fP(1) menu files.
.PP
\fIread_olwm_menu\fP returns a menu structure defined as follows 
(these are the definitions from Sun's \fIolwm\fP):
.nf
.ft B

typedef struct {
	char *title;
	char *label;
	int idefault;		/* index of default button */
	int nbuttons;
	Bool pinnable;
	buttondata *bfirst;
} menudata;

typedef struct _buttondata {
	struct _buttondata *next;
	char *name;
	Bool isDefault;
	Bool isLast;
	FuncPtr func;
	char *exec;    /* string to be executed, like "xterm" */
	void *submenu; /* this really is type menudata - js */
	} buttondata;

.ft
.fi
The function \fIprint_olwm_menu prints the names and execution strings
from menus read by \fIread_olwm_menu\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\fIread_olwm_menu\fP is used within \fIexv_bbox\fP to read the menu
file whose name is passed to that routine.  It is also used in
\fIfbuttons\fP (1\-\s-1ESPS\s+1) to read the menu passed via the
\fB-M\fP option.  For examples of simple menu files, see
\fImbuttons\fP (1\-\s-1ESPS\s+1).
.SH ERRORS AND DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.SH FUTURE CHANGES
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
None known.
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fIolwm\fP(1), (3xu\-\s-1ESPS\s+1), \fIexv_bbox\fP (3xu\-\s-1ESPS\s+1)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
program and man page by John Shore.  This is little more than a 
cover function for the \fIolwm\fP function \fImenuFromFile\fP.  




