.\" Copyright (c) 1987 Entropic Speech, Inc.; All rights reserved
.\" @(#)setseglab.3	1.4 22 Oct 1987 ESI
.TH SET_SEG_LAB 3\-ESPSu 22 Oct 1987
.ds ]W "\fI\s+4\ze\h'0.05'e\s-4\v'-0.4m'\fP\(*p\v'0.4m'\ Entropic Speech, Inc.
.SH NAME
set_seg_lab \- flag an ESPS FEA file as segment-labeled and
define the necessary fields
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <esps/esps.h>
#include <esps/fea.h>

void
set_seg_lab(hd,files)
struct header *hd;
char **files;
.fi
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I set_seg_lab
flags an ESPS Feature file as \fIsegment-labeled\fR and defines the
necessary fields.
The fields defined are
a coded field of size 1 named "source_file" and two
long-integer fields of size 1 named "segment_start" and "segment_length".
For each record these give the name of an ESPS file and the beginning
record number and number of records of a segment in that file to which
the feature record refers. 
The item \fIsegment-labeled\fR in the FEA file header is set to YES.
Flagging a FEA file as segment-labeled
is incompatible with a value of YES for
\fItag\fR
in the common part of the header.
.PP
Since the file name is stored as a CODED data type (to conserve space,
assuming that file names will repeat in segments) the list of possible
values (file names) for the field "source_file" must be known when the
header is written.    If this list is known when \fIset_seg_lab\fR is to
be called, then it is passed to the function through \fIfiles\fR which
is a pointer to an array of character pointers (or a pointer to an array
of character strings).   If this list is not known when the function is
called, NULL should be given for \fInames\fR and the list can be
assigned to \fIhd.fea->enums[i]\fR, where \fIi\fR is the index into the header
arrays corresponding to the field named "source_file".   (Use
\fIlin_search2\fR(3\-ESPSu) to get \fIi\fR.)
.PP 
Since this function creates fields in the feature file and modifies
the file header, it must be called before the header is written out
with \fIwrite_header\fR(3\-ESPSu).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
If \fIhd\fR is not an ESPS Feature file a message is printed and the
program terminates with exit 1.   
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
add_fea_fld(3\-ESPSu),
lin_search2(3\-ESPSu),
FEA(5\-ESPS)
.SH AUTHOR
Alan Parker
