.\" Copyright (c) 1987 Entropic Speech, Inc.; All rights reserved
.\" @(#)vqencode.3	1.6 11 Aug 1991 ESI
.TH VQENCODE 3\-ESPSsp 11 Aug 1991
.ds ]W "\fI\s+4\ze\h'0.05'e\s-4\v'-0.4m'\fP\(*p\v'0.4m'\ Entropic Speech, Inc.
.SH NAME
vqencode \- vector quantize a single feature vector using a full-search codebook
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
long
vqencode(fea, fea_dim, codebook, cbk_size, cbk_dim, dist_val, distort, dist_err)
float *fea;		\fI/*feature vector to be encoded*/\fP
long fea_dim;	\fI/*dimension of feature vector*/\fP
float **codebook;	\fI/*the full search vq codebook*/\fP
long cbk_size;	\fI/*number of codewords in codebook*/\fP
long cbk_dim;	\fI/*dimension of each codeword*/\fP
double *dist_val;	\fI/*distortion between fea and selected codeword*/\fP
double (*distort)();	\fI/*routine to compute distortions*/\fP
int *dist_err;	\fI/*for passing back errors from distort*/\fP
.fi
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I vqencode
takes a feature vector
.I fea
of length 
.I fea_dim
and searches the full-search vector quantization codebook 
.I codebook
for the closest codeword.  The index of the closest codeword is
returned as the function value.  Thus if 
.I ind
is the return value from 
.I vqencode,
then \fIcodebook\fR[\fIind\fR] is a pointer to the closest 
codeword.  The distortion value between 
.I fea
and this codeword is returned via the parameter
.I dist_val.  
.PP
The
.I codebook
parameter is interpreted as a pointer to a matrix of floats containing
.I cbk_size
rows of 
.I cbk_dimen
columns each.  Space for this matrix must be allocated by 
the calling program \- such a pointer can be assigned by
means of 
.I f_mat_alloc
(3\-ESPSu).  Such codebook matrices correspond to the 
.I codebook
element of the struct vqcbk (see 
.I vqdesign
(3\-ESPSsp)).  
.PP
The distortion measure used in searching 
.I codebook
is passed to 
.I vqencode
as the function pointer
.I distort.  
If \fIdistort\fR == NULL, a mean-square-error distortion is used, in
which case \fIvqencode\fP requires that \fIfea_dim\fP and
\fIcbk_dim\fP be the same (it exits with an assertion violation if
this is not the case).  Otherwise, the indicated function is called to
compute distortions.  For the required synopsis of
.I distort,
see 
.I vqdesign
(3\-ESPSsp).  Valid distortion 
functions include in their synopsis an error return value, and this 
value is passed back to the caller of 
.I vqencode
via the parameter
.I dist_err.  
Thus, if 
.I *dist_err
is non-zero after 
.I vqencode
returns, then an error was detected when
.I vqencode
called 
.I distort.  
.SH EXAMPLE

.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
vqdesign(3\-ESPSsp), f_mat_alloc (3\-ESPSu), 
vqdes(1\-ESPS), vq(1\-ESPS)
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
See
.I vqdesign
(3\-ESPSsp)
.SH AUTHOR
Manual page and program by John Shore.
