.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.; All rights reserved
.\" @(#)wavesshows.3	1.3 21 Jun 1993 ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1993 Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
.TH  WAVES_SHOW_SD 3\-ESPSu  21 Jun 1993
.SH NAME

.nf
waves_show_sd \- displays user time-series data in an xwaves window
.fi
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
extern int debug_level;

int
waves_show_sd( samp_freq, start_time, data, length, type, 
	num_channels, setting, name)
double samp_freq;
double *start_time;
char *data;
long length;
int type;
int num_channels;
char *setting;
char *name;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIWaves_show_sd\fR creates a temporary FEA_SD file from an array of 
user time-series data, and displays it in an xwaves window by a call of
\fIsend_xwaves2 (3-ESPS)\fR if an \fixwaves\fR program is running 
in server mode.  A non-negative value is returned upon successful
completion of the call.
.PP
This is useful in debugging some DSP code.  With this simple call,
intermediate results can be examined.
.PP
The following are input parameters:
.TP
.I samp_freq
The sampling frequency of time-series data.
.TP
.I start_time
An array storing the starting time of time-series data.  Size of this 
array is the number of channels in data.  If NULL value is specified,
0 starting time is assumed.
.TP
.I data
The user time-series data.  For single-channel data, \fIdata\fR is simply
an array of sampled-data points.  For multi-channel data, \fIdata\fR
is conceptually a 2-dimensional array with \fIlength\fR rows and
\fInum_channels\fR columns.  \fIData\fR is cast to \fI(char *)\fR.
.TP
.I length
Length of sampled-data points.
.TP
.I type
Type of \fIdata\fR.  All ESPS supported data types are valid.
.TP
.I num_channels
Number of channels.
.TP
.I setting
This is a string of \fIxwaves\fR commands.  If NULL is specified, default
\fIxwaves\fR behavior is expected; otherwise, use this argument to set 
\fIxwaves\fR attributes.
.TP
.I name
The name of FEA_SD file to be created.  If NULL is specified, \fIname\fR is
set to a string containing the contents of the \fIunix\fR environment
variable ESPS_TEMP_PATH, followed by '/wavesXXXXXX', where Xs are replace by
current process ID.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.nf
int i, j, num_channels = 2;
float *data, stuff1[1000], stuff2[1000];

for( i=0, j=0; i<1000; i++, j+=2){
  data[j] = stuff1[i];
  data[j+1] = stuff2[i];
}
if( -1 == waves_show_sd(8000.0, NULL, data, 1000, FLOAT, 
	num_channels, NULL, NULL))
  error...
.fi
.sp
.PP
.SH ERRORS AND DIAGNOSTICS
Program returns -1 with warning messages if \fIdata\fR is NULL,
\fIlength<=0\fR, non-recognized \fItype\fR, or \fInum_channels<=0\fR.
.PP
.SH WARNING
\fIWaves_show_sd\fR does not remove the temporary file created.  It is 
programmer's responsibility to delete them.
.SH FUTURE CHANGES
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
None known.
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
FEA_SD(5-ESPS), send_xwaves2(3-ESPS), xwaves(1-ESPS), e_temp_name(3-ESPS)
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Derek Lin
.PP





